Welcome to another one of our corporate
specials.
Really valued partners for us at 94.3
radio 1. The good people at ICIC Lumbar
General Insurance Company Limited. And
I'm very pleased to welcome chief
customer experience, support and
operations, Girish Seagel. Girish uh is
a versatile banking professional with
over two decades of experience at ICICI
Bank. Hi, wonderful to see you and uh
thank you for making the trudge to our
office and our studio.
>> Uh thank you Rishi. Thank you very much
for having me here and uh a big hello to
all the listeners.
>> Thank you.
>> I want to start with this wonderful
association that we've had over the last
8 years. It has survived one pandemic
and it goes on stronger than ever
before. Uh for all of you who are out
there, you'll probably know this if you
listen to us regularly. ICIC Lombard
presents Get Some Sun with Radio 1 is in
its eighth super hit year. Year upon
year we give you some great travel
information and advice and um ICA
Lombard has really become synonymous
with travel insurance around the world
for all of you who are listening. So I'm
very proud of this association and I'm
sure you are too.
>> Absolutely Rishi this is the eighth year
and uh our customers have been
appreciating the show. The kind of
feedbacks that we get from our
customers, the celebrity hosts,
influencers, all the radio hosts, the
travel stories, I think have been very
amazing and have been relating with the
kind of travel which our clients also
do. So, it's absolutely fantastic to be
associated in the eth edition of this
show. Thank you so much.
>> Wonderful. And may there be many, many,
many more editions.
Why travel insurance matters more than
ever? I think it would be a nice way to
start this conversation. Girish talk to
us about how travel has evolved post
pandemic and why does travel insurance
matter more than ever today. I think
great question Rishi. Uh to my mind I
think during pandemic uh our suitcases
were gathering dust, flights were
grounded, uh bro borders were sealed. We
were not traveling. I think we were all
locked up. When the pandemic got over
suddenly we had an we had an era of
revenge travel where people came out of
the house and suddenly the travel
surged. I think over last 2 three years
lot of water has flown under the bridge.
Today for me I think and what we feel it
is an era of responsible travel from
revenge to responsible travel. Today
people are more aware. Indian traveler
is more global. They are more covered.
They are more uh cautious. They want
peace of mind. They they they want
travel of course they want leisure
pleasure everything but not at the cost
of safety. I think that is something
which is very very important change
which is happening and and and to be
very honest there are a lot of myths
which were associated with uh travel
insurance and lot of uh those glass
ceilings are being broken. So travel
insurance is just nice to have. Uh it is
very expensive. It it involves lot of
paperwork. I think all those uh myths
have been broken today. Travel insurance
is not nice to have. It is must have. It
is something which is non-negotiable.
something it is not expensive it is
affordable and you can you can get it at
the click of a button. So a lot of
things have changed. People are more
aligned and people have realized that
travel insurance is something which is
their invisible travel partner and they
have to travel with travel insurance of
course if they want peace of mind.
>> This very beautifully put your invisible
travel partner. So you might have your
friends and your family that you're
traveling with but the invisible travel
partner will always be I say I say
Lombard you know let's talk about
unpredictability. One of the main
reasons why Indians have become so
cautious now as opposed to the revenge
travel post the pandemic which is the
wonderful term that you use to describe
what was happening. There are flight de
delays,
>> there are travel disruptions, there are
even lost gadgets
>> and obviously this is a lot of detailed
planning and research that ICA Lombard
has indulged in.
>> True.
>> To try and cover these customer needs.
So I'd like you to talk about that and
if you could give us some data the shift
uh which is so visible in data terms how
much percentage increase for example did
you see in travel insurance policies?
>> Yeah so again uh great question uh to my
mind I think uh uh like I said over a
period of time it's not a one-sizefitit
all uh uh policy or one size fit all
product which can be uh pitched to a
customer. Every customer has different
needs, different profiles, different
personas. And if suppose a customer is
traveling out for adventure sports, he
needs a cover for that. Somebody is
traveling with a pet, then he needs a
pet cover. Somebody needs a gadget
cover. Somebody needs a uh sublimmit
waiver cover. Somebody needs a
pre-existing disease waiver cover. So
there are covers which are specific to
customer needs. It is like uh saying uh
a tailor made when when you when you
speak of a uh a jacket which is a
bespoke jacket or a suit. It is like a
tailor made policy customized policy
depending upon the needs of the customer
and hence uh to that extent lot of
customers who call us they express their
needs and we customize and and get those
covers in for those set of customers. I
think the control is completely in the
hand of the customer. I can choose my
sumins inured. I can choose my
deductibles. I can choose what are the
covers that I need. So somewhere I think
insurance has evolved. It's not just a
plain vanilla insurance. It's moved
leaps and bounds. So just not a passport
loss or a baggage loss or a flight delay
or a flight cancellation or a hotel
hotel booking cancellation. I think so
much which gets covered which is far
beyond all this that I mentioned. So I
think that's one area which we have seen
and uh I think post pandemic there has
been a phenomenal rise that I told you
earlier also. So we have seen almost
100% plus increase in in travel uh
policies that we sell. In fact even our
country has seen the international
travelers going up by even a higher
number or a higher percentage. So market
and opportunity is definitely huge and
customers are increasingly realizing
that they have to travel without with a
travel insurance. they can't afford to
travel without a travel insurance.
>> This that's wonderful answer there. Um
the shift is visible like Girish said in
the data too. IC Lombard saw 115%
increase in travel insurance policies
which is from FY 2022 to FY 2025 and the
Ministry of Tourism now says officially
international departures have jumped by
137%. And that's 2023 data reflecting
booming demand and increased awareness.
For those of you who've just tuned in
and have just joined our conversation,
it's Girish Seagal is chief of customer
experience support and operations at ICA
Lombard. He's my guest of the day. He's
held multiple roles across assets,
liabilities, underwriting, product
management. Played a key role in
establishing the wealth management
business at ICIC Bank. Uh all of this
before taking charge of his of his
present responsibilities.
Let's move on now to this this shift and
why it's so important. Girish for the
industry on one side and for customers
on the other side. So the shift like I
said uh today I think travel insurance
has become very important because while
you are traveling while of course you go
and travel for a vacation or a solo
travel or a family travel for a business
travel the travel we go for memories
creating new memories exciting journeys
but god forbid if some exigency happens
for that to and and in the initial part
like you said to plan for something
which is unpredictable some disaster or
something can happen at any point in
time to take care of those unforeseen
circumstances. is I think travel
insurance is the key and and I can tell
you I keep getting so much so many
messages from our clients mails from our
clients and and some of these realtime
scenarios where I remember a student had
traveled and the person had some
exigency but because of the fact that he
was carrying a travel insurance
everything right from hospitalization to
end to end cover uh was managed the
family was reassured a lot because
family was here it was a solo travel the
student was traveling abroad So all
these kind of uh uh things can happen to
anyone and I think for that we should
have travel insurance uh as of course
our safety partner. Clearly
>> today's modernday uh travel protection
is smarter and more aligned to modern
needs and you mentioned that briefly
about how you know people can be
conscious about their pets can be
conscious about adventure. In that
light, speak about Trip Secure Plus,
this incredible product that you build
and the philosophy behind the product.
>> So, like I was telling, it's not a
one-sizefitit-all solution. The
solutions have to be customized and
personalized for every customer and
every customer is very different,
different ageband, different geographies
they are traveling to and they have
different needs. So, trip secure plus uh
using AI modules. I think we have
hyperpersonalized the offerings. The
control is in the hand of the customer.
Customer can choose in trip seccure plus
what is the kind of some insured he
needs and what are kind of covers that a
customer needs. So, if somebody is
planning to go for an adventure sports
or cruise, there are covers on adventure
sports, cruise disruption. Uh for my
gadgets, there can be a cover. If there
is a pre-existing disease and I want
that to be covered as a senior citizen
if I'm traveling, I can get a P PD uh VA
cover. If there are things like uh you
said pet pet cover is also there. So
there are multiple covers. I think we
have 76 odd covers as part of the Trip
Secure Plus product and I think it is
one of the most sought- after products
uh in the industry and our customers
really love it and let me tell you very
honestly why our customers come and buy
insurance policies from us because one
they trust us they like us and they they
know that uh whatever that we offer will
be uh suiting their needs and we will be
there in their distress at every point
in time wherever they are we will be
right up there and show up there in case
of they need us. So
>> that's very beautifully put. So this is
travel insurance that adapts to your
lifestyle and not the other way around.
There's a very wonderful line and I'm
going to pick it out. Uh there's a line
that goes
your service travels with you. What does
it mean when you say your service quote
unquote travels with you? Explain that
Gish.
uh so I'll of course I'll explain this
uh for us frankly customer service is
not a department customer service is
strongly embibed in every person at ICSL
Lombard and we uh at ICSL Lombard
believe our customer focus is far far
higher than competitor focus clearly now
when it comes to a service that travels
with you we are there with the customer
at every step of his journey so it's a
it's a product or it's a insurance which
is from home to home so Right from the
time you step out of your home and sit
in a cab, the insurance cover starts.
It's from airport again to whatever the
destination that you are doing or going
and then whatever activities there
indulged in. So right from airport to uh
bungee jumping I think everywhere
whether if you want to go for river
rafting anything. So all adventure
sports everything gets covered. We are
in fact one step ahead at every point in
time. So we are there to take care of
anything and everything which happens.
Any exigency that can happen, we will
show up consistently. I think that is
the message that we really want to give
to our customers.
>> Nice. For those of you who just joined
us, Giri Seager is chief customer
experience support and operations at
ICIC Lombard General Insurance Company
Limited. Uh we share a deep bond at
Radio One with ICIC Lombard. Um they've
been partnering with us on get some sun
with radio one our well industry leading
radio program and uh Girish has had some
incredible experience at ICICI bank. His
expertise in managing HNI customers has
paved the way for streamlining processes
for high net worth clients regarding
their investments and banking needs. And
that passion for customer service
raising the bar for customer experience
has also carried on to his role in IC
Lumbar. Uh and if you're listening to
this conversation, we will realize
exactly how and why. All right, since
you explained the traveling with you
concept, let's come to artificial
intelligence which is such a buzz
buzzword these days. Girish and I know
that ICIC Lumbar general insurance
company is using it in a very meaningful
manner. How is AI powering smarter, more
intuitive customer experiences in
travel?
>> So I'm sure everybody is aware that uh
innovation is something that fuels
exponential growth and uh as we move
ahead I think innovation opportunities
are only found at the edges not at the
center.
>> So this is very very incredible because
we have been working on AI uh along with
AI at every stage of the customer life
cycle. So right from the buying journey
where we have created personas or
profiles of the customer in terms of
customization of the products which are
suited to a particular customer we use
AI. Then when there is a claim
initiation which can happen at the click
of a button it's not a very lengthy
process. You can just go on our app and
initiate a claim in case of a uh need.
There also we use AI to estimate and and
ensure that the claim uh transitioning
is much faster as much as possible. Then
when if you need us and if you call at
our call center there is uh again AI
which picks in you have a voice bot you
have our WhatsApp chatbot everything is
powered by genetic AI and LLM engines I
think somewhere AI is playing a critical
role and because I think with AI one
good part is you can have infinite
output limitless output boundless output
there there is no limit I think uh when
you use AI and that is where I think we
are using AI but I think the word of
caution Harishi is uh we are using AI
but there is a human element which is
also very much there. It is not just
technical uh we are ensuring that
whatever that we engage with customers
is in customer lingo we are right up
there with the customer even though uh
AI and digital is being used but uh
there is a definite human touch whether
it's a ria chatbot or whatever that we
do we use u the human element as much as
possible. Yes, I wanted to say that I I
wanted to say that IC Lombard makes sure
that the experience feels human and not
robotic and even if you experience the
WhatsApp line or the app or the call
line that Girish was talking about, the
experience is infinitely human.
>> So there's this tech and obviously you
have to translate this into customer
empowerment.
Um so talk to me about that translation.
So uh like I said uh in our trip secure
plus the power lies or the control lies
with the customer. As a customer you can
choose what covers you need what kind of
subinsured you need what kind of
deductibles you want and and depending
upon the need of the customer the covers
are available if it's an adventure
sports or uh gadgets or uh your uh pet
cover. So anything and everything that
uh you need depending upon the uh travel
needs depending upon your needs I think
those covers are available at your
fingertips and it's a home to home cover
which I said clearly so right from the
time you leave your home here and by the
time you come back everything every part
of the journey is covered completely.
>> What does it mean Girish to design
culturefed CX in insurance? I like the
term culture feeding.
So culture I think like I said uh uh the
culture at ICS Lombard is clearly that
for us uh customer service is clearly uh
not a department it is something which
is embibed and strongly ingrained within
all of us uh and and and trust is at the
the core value when it comes to customer
service and that's where all our uh
customer experience journeys have been
built uh clearly whether it is uh the
buying journey whether it's a renewal
journey whether it's a claims journey
all Journeys one have to be seamless,
very easy without any h itch uh
completely simple and transparent. The
turnaround times have to be extremely
fast uh if otherwise otherwise it
creates a lot of customer dissonance. So
all journeys whether they are digital
which have been built across our
platforms website take I'll take your
app or uh your call center uh everywhere
I think the the the care has been taken
that the journeys are as seamless as
possible. We have a human touch in
place. We speak and ensure that we uh
keep the warmth of the with the customer
as much as possible and customers if
they respect us and like us or buy
products from us is because of the
fiveletter word which is trust I would
say and trust is very very very
important in an insurance business
>> and raia
>> absolutely
>> the chatbot
>> ria ri
>> real what is it it's real impact through
assistance isn't it? Yeah, wonderful.
What an amazing concept. Giri Seager is
chief of customer experience, support
and operations at ICS Lombard General
Insurance Company Limited. He's my guest
of the day. Uh, and if you've fathomemed
by this conversation, he really
transformed the contact center by
implementing digitization, leveraging
voice and email bots, actively driving
digital service adoption among clients.
And uh in a past life before joining
ICICI he's also worked with Kodak India
Limited in the films and cameras FMCG
division. A engineer with a gold medal
in electronics and communication. He's
also an MBA in marketing from Podar
Institute of Management Research in
Japur and he also holds an MDP in
marketing from the IM called Kata. All
right. since you explained so lucidly
about the AI experience and how it
translate into uh into customer
empowerment and how your culture fed CX
and insurance works. I'd like you to
talk about a couple of more things on
the trip secure plus. You spoke about
the smart uh tailored products,
>> how it's customer first, but just a
little bit about senior citizens and how
friendly it is for senior citizens
>> and the coverage expansion. I mean, what
is it 70 plus covers? Amazing.
>> Yeah. So, uh if if suppose somebody is a
senior citizen and and he wants to
travel and he's carrying some
pre-existing disease, so he can opt for
a pre-existing disease waiver cover. So,
that takes care of entire
hospitalization end to end. So that is
something that we really want because a
lot of times if you see people traveling
can be suffering from hypertension or
diabetes and if something happens when
you are abroad got forbit if some
hospitalization or some need arises. So
you can opt for a peed waiver cover.
Similarly there are sublims in an
insurance policy on hospitalization etc.
You can also opt for a sublim waiver
cover. So then it becomes completely
limitless or wide uh insurance policy
that you get. While of course with
sublimmits it's quite affordable. So you
can opt for whatever cover that you need
and I remember a lot of times uh I keep
getting this emails from a lot of
clients who have traveled abroad and uh
something happens uh and then they need
uh and of course the need the the help
is available at the click of a button.
So we are available at uh app, we are
available at website call center and the
help is just a stones throw away. So
it's
>> wonderful. And like Gir said a little
while ago, it's a home to home cover.
>> The coverage does not begin at the
airport, which is what you normally
think with uh policies. It starts from
your doorstep.
>> Uh Gish, initially when we started this
conversation, you gave us one example.
I'd love it if you could quote another
one. Just personal experiences that have
shaped your your customer philosophy.
And is there a particular customer story
that reflects what you aim for?
>> So like I was telling you a story of a
student who had traveled abroad and
something had happened. There are many
stories like this where some families
have been going and uh few of my
colleagues in fact who had gone there
and lost their baggage and passports and
they needed help. I think the help was
available at the click of a button. We
could ensure that uh they could travel
back safely and everything was covered.
And a lot of times uh these are
uncertain times with so much happening
geopolitically. There can be flight
cancellation, flight disruptions which
can happen or flight delays. A lot of
times we have seen this happening. So I
think if you really want to travel with
uh peace of mind and nothing is more
important and costly than peace of mind
I believe and peace of mind is something
that you get with our trip secure plus.
I think it's a great product and if you
have tripsecure plus I'm sure you can
travel worryf free completely. You know,
you've had an eventful life. I took
people through your uh your incredible
career. Uh but just for those of you who
want to understand Girish, the real
Girish when he's not at work, he loves
to sing. He plays the guitar and write
poems. But that's beautiful. So what is
your language of choice? Do you write in
Udu? Do you write in Hindi? Do you write
in English?
>> I can write in Hindi and English both
Udu.
>> Wow. Your wife must be a very happy
woman.
>> Yeah, she she was. Do you manage to do
you manage to write poems for her?
>> Yeah, used to. She was my bachelorate at
our MBA college.
>> We were together in our MBA and uh so
I'm a Punjabi and she's a Jen. So it was
a difficult uh uh way of getting
together, convincing each other's
families. But
>> the poetry helped the poetry helped.
>> Poetry of course helped with her but not
with her parents. There I think the
trust helped.
>> Yeah. and and and the guitar I mean is
it something you picked up during
college or much later?
>> No, in fact uh guitar is something which
my wife gifted me on one of my
birthdays.
>> Beautiful.
>> And uh since then I have uh I have a uh
teacher who comes and he teaches me and
my daughter as well. So both of us have
our lessons on uh weekend Saturday and
Sunday.
>> So what is it? What is your go-to tunes
of choice and what is your daughter's
go-to tunes of choice? Are you guys
doing a combination of Ed Sheiran and
Kishor Kumar?
>> So I love Kishor Kumar of course and uh
my daughter uh generally loves uh
God's love which is something which is
is a nice rhyme to have and she is very
fond of that.
>> Lovely. I think a wonderful way to sign
off from this conversation would be what
has travel what has customer centricity
taught you personally? I mean travel is
so amazing isn't it? I mean it it widens
your horizons. I I leave the floor uh to
you and I think that'll be a nice way to
sign off.
>> Uh I think u for us customer centricity
is extremely important and for me
personally I think uh for anything and
everything that we do our success lies
with the hands of the customer. If we
are not doing something or we are
creating a product which does not appeal
to the customers then uh the product is
not worth it. So I think anything and
everything that we do must have a human
and a customer element strongly embibed.
There should be an active feedback
mechanism which should come in from
customers when they write to us or call
us and we should be able to plow that
feedback back in our product creation
journey. And I think we firmly believe
that uh uh future can be of course
better than what we are present and
there is an intent that yes we will do
it and uh we are always there with our
customers as much as possible. Of course
uh we are not perfect. There will always
be some gaps and areas of improvement.
But let me tell to all the listeners
here that we are working towards uh
improving our customers experience with
utmost sincerity and honesty and we
would always be fair to our customers.
>> That's wonderful. Please go check them
out. IC Lumbar General Insurance Company
Limited on Instagram, on LinkedIn, on
the worldwide web and um yeah do give a
call when you're traveling because this
is like he said your silent invisible
partner will always be there by your
side. Giri Seagel uh chief of customer
experience support and operations at
ICICL Ombad. It's been such a pleasure
talking to you. Thank you very much for
this very enlightening conversation.
>> Thank you. Thank you so much.
94.3 Radio